Note About Forward-Looking Statements
This report includes estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results that are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including the following sections: “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words “believe,” “project,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,” “plan,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially in “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in our fiscal year 2023 Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise.
General
Embracing Our Future
Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. We are creating the platforms and tools, powered by artificial intelligence (“AI”), that deliver better, faster, and more effective solutions to support small and large business competitiveness, improve educational and health outcomes, grow public-sector efficiency, and empower human ingenuity. From infrastructure and data, to business applications and collaboration, we provide unique, differentiated value to customers.
In a world of increasing economic complexity, AI has the power to revolutionize many types of work. Microsoft is now innovating and expanding our portfolio with AI capabilities to help people and organizations overcome today’s challenges and emerge stronger. Customers are looking to unlock value from their digital spend and innovate for this next generation of AI, while simplifying security and management. Those leveraging the Microsoft Cloud are best positioned to take advantage of technological advancements and drive innovation. Our investment in AI spans the entire company, from Microsoft Teams and Outlook, to Bing and Xbox, and we are infusing generative AI capability into our consumer and commercial offerings to deliver copilot capability for all services across the Microsoft Cloud.
We’re committed to making the promise of AI real – and doing it responsibly. Our work is guided by a core set of principles: fairness, reliability and safety, privacy and security, inclusiveness, transparency, and accountability.
What We Offer
Founded in 1975, we develop and support software, services, devices, and solutions that deliver new value for customers and help people and businesses realize their full potential.
We offer an array of services, including cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content, and we provide solution support and consulting services. We also deliver relevant online advertising to a global audience.
Our products include operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and server management tools, software development tools, and video games. We also design and sell devices, including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
The Ambitions That Drive Us
To achieve our vision, our research and development efforts focus on three interconnected ambitions:
Reinvent productivity and business processes.
Build the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge platform.
Create more personal computing.
Reinvent Productivity and Business Processes
At Microsoft, we provide technology and resources to help our customers create a secure, productive work environment. Our family of products plays a key role in the ways the world works, learns, and connects.
Our growth depends on securely delivering continuous innovation and advancing our leading productivity and collaboration tools and services, including Office 365, Dynamics 365, and LinkedIn. Microsoft 365 brings together Office 365, Windows, and Enterprise Mobility + Security to help organizations empower their employees with AI-backed tools that unlock creativity, increase collaboration, and fuel innovation, all the while enabling compliance coverage and data protection. Microsoft Teams is a comprehensive platform for work, with meetings, calls, chat, collaboration, and business process automation. Microsoft Viva is an employee experience platform that brings together communications, knowledge, learning, resources, and insights. Microsoft 365 Copilot combines next-generation AI with business data in the Microsoft Graph and Microsoft 365 applications.
Together with the Microsoft Cloud, Dynamics 365, Microsoft Teams, and our AI offerings bring a new era of collaborative applications that optimize business functions, processes, and applications to better serve customers and employees while creating more business value. Microsoft Power Platform is helping domain experts drive productivity gains with low-code/no-code tools, robotic process automation, virtual agents, and business intelligence. In a dynamic labor market, LinkedIn is helping professionals use the platform to connect, learn, grow, and get hired.
Build the Intelligent Cloud and Intelligent Edge Platform
As digital transformation and adoption of AI accelerates and revolutionizes more business workstreams, organizations in every sector across the globe can address challenges that will have a fundamental impact on their success. For enterprises, digital technology empowers employees, optimizes operations, engages customers, and in some cases, changes the very core of products and services. We continue to invest in high performance and sustainable computing to meet the growing demand for fast access to Microsoft services provided by our network of cloud computing infrastructure and datacenters.
Our cloud business benefits from three economies of scale: datacenters that deploy computational resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; datacenters that coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns, improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy locations that lower application maintenance labor costs.
The Microsoft Cloud provides the best integration across the technology stack while offering openness, improving time to value, reducing costs, and increasing agility. Being a global-scale cloud, Azure uniquely offers hybrid consistency, developer productivity, AI capabilities, and trusted security and compliance. We see more emerging use cases and needs for compute and security at the edge and are accelerating our innovation across the spectrum of intelligent edge devices, from Internet of Things (“IoT”) sensors to gateway devices and edge hardware to build, manage, and secure edge workloads.
Our AI platform, Azure AI, is helping organizations transform, bringing intelligence and insights to the hands of their employees and customers to solve their most pressing challenges. Organizations large and small are deploying Azure AI solutions to achieve more at scale, more easily, with the proper enterprise-level and responsible AI protections.
We have a long-term partnership with OpenAI, a leading AI research and deployment company. We deploy OpenAI’s models across our consumer and enterprise products. As OpenAI’s exclusive cloud provider, Azure powers all of OpenAI’s workloads. We have also increased our investments in the development and deployment of specialized supercomputing systems to accelerate OpenAI’s research.
Our hybrid infrastructure offers integrated, end-to-end security, compliance, identity, and management capabilities to support the real-world needs and evolving regulatory requirements of commercial customers and enterprises. Our industry clouds bring together capabilities across the entire Microsoft Cloud, along with industry-specific customizations. Azure Arc simplifies governance and management by delivering a consistent multi-cloud and on-premises management platform.
Nuance, a leader in conversational AI and ambient intelligence across industries including healthcare, financial services, retail, and telecommunications, joined Microsoft in 2022. Microsoft and Nuance enable organizations to accelerate their business goals with security-focused, cloud-based solutions infused with AI.
We are accelerating our development of mixed reality solutions with new Azure services and devices. Microsoft Mesh enables organizations to create custom, immersive experiences for the workplace to help bring remote and hybrid workers and teams together.
The ability to convert data into AI drives our competitive advantage. The Microsoft Intelligent Data Platform is a leading cloud data platform that fully integrates databases, analytics, and governance. The platform empowers organizations to invest more time creating value rather than integrating and managing their data. Microsoft Fabric is an end-to-end, unified analytics platform that brings together all the data and analytics tools that organizations need.
GitHub Copilot is at the forefront of AI-powered software development, giving developers a new tool to write code easier and faster so they can focus on more creative problem-solving. From GitHub to Visual Studio, we provide a developer tool chain for everyone, no matter the technical experience, across all platforms, whether Azure, Windows, or any other cloud or client platform.
Windows also plays a critical role in fueling our cloud business with Windows 365, a desktop operating system that’s also a cloud service. From another internet-connected device, including Android or macOS devices, users can run Windows 365, just like a virtual machine.
Additionally, we are extending our infrastructure beyond the planet, bringing cloud computing to space. Azure Orbital is a fully managed ground station as a service for fast downlinking of data.
Create More Personal Computing
We strive to make computing more personal, enabling users to interact with technology in more intuitive, engaging, and dynamic ways.
Windows 11 offers innovations focused on enhancing productivity, including Windows Copilot with centralized AI assistance and Dev Home to help developers become more productive. Windows 11 security and privacy features include operating system security, application security, and user and identity security.
Through our Search, News, Mapping, and Browser services, Microsoft delivers unique trust, privacy, and safety features. In February 2023, we launched an all new, AI-powered Microsoft Edge browser and Bing search engine with Bing Chat to deliver better search, more complete answers, and the ability to generate content. Microsoft Edge is our fast and secure browser that helps protect users’ data. Quick access to AI-powered tools, apps, and more within Microsoft Edge’s sidebar enhance browsing capabilities.
We are committed to designing and marketing first-party devices to help drive innovation, create new device categories, and stimulate demand in the Windows ecosystem. The Surface family includes Surface Pro, Surface Laptop, and other Surface products.
Microsoft continues to invest in gaming content, community, and cloud services. We have broadened our approach to how we think about gaming end-to-end, from the way games are created and distributed to how they are played, including subscription services like Xbox Game Pass and new devices from third-party manufacturers so players can engage across PC, console, and mobile. In January 2022, we announced plans to acquire Activision Blizzard, Inc., a leader in game development and an interactive entertainment content publisher.
Our Future Opportunity
We are focused on helping customers use the breadth and depth of the Microsoft Cloud to get the most value out of their digital spend while leading the new AI wave across our solution areas. We continue to develop complete, intelligent solutions for our customers that empower people to be productive and collaborate, while safeguarding businesses and simplifying IT management. Our goal is to lead the industry in several distinct areas of technology over the long term, which we expect will translate to sustained growth. We are investing significant resources in:
Transforming the workplace to deliver new modern, modular business applications, drive deeper insights, and improve how people communicate, collaborate, learn, work, and interact with one another.
Building and running cloud-based services in ways that utilize ubiquitous computing to unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals.
Applying AI and ambient intelligence to drive insights, revolutionize many types of work, and provide substantive productivity gains using natural methods of communication.
Tackling security from all angles with our integrated, end-to-end solutions spanning security, compliance, identity, and management, across all clouds and platforms.
Inventing new gaming experiences that bring people together around their shared love for games on any devices and pushing the boundaries of innovation with console and PC gaming.
Using Windows to fuel our cloud business, grow our share of the PC market, and drive increased engagement with our services like Microsoft 365 Consumer, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft Edge, Bing, Xbox Game Pass, and more.
Our future growth depends on our ability to transcend current product category definitions, business models, and sales motions.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Commitment to Sustainability
Microsoft’s approach to addressing climate change starts with the sustainability of our own business. In 2020, we committed to being a carbon negative, water positive, and zero waste company by 2030.
In May 2023, we released our Environmental Sustainability Report which looked back at our progress during fiscal year 2022. We continued to make progress on our goals, with our overall emissions declining by 0.5 percent. While our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions continued to decline, Scope 3 emissions increased by 0.5 percent. Scope 3 represented 96 percent of our total emissions, resulting primarily from the operations of our suppliers and the use of our products across our customers.
A few examples of our continued progress include:
Signed new power purchase agreements, bringing our total portfolio of carbon-free energy to over 13.5 gigawatts.
Contracted for water replenishment projects that are estimated to provide more than 15.6 million cubic meters in volumetric water benefit over the lifetime of these projects.
Diverted 12,159 metric tons of solid waste from landfills and incinerators across our direct operational footprint.
Protected 12,270 acres of land in Belize – more than the 11,206 acres of land that we use around the world.
Microsoft has a role to play in developing and advancing new climate solutions, but we recognize that no solution can be offered by any single company, organization, or government. Our approach helps to support the sustainability needs of our customers and the global community. Our Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability, an environmental sustainability management platform that includes Microsoft Sustainability Manager, enables organizations to record, report, and reduce their Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. These digital tools can interoperate with business systems and unify data intelligence for organizations.
Addressing Racial Injustice and Inequity
We are committed to addressing racial injustice and inequity in the United States for Black and African American communities and helping improve lived experiences at Microsoft, in employees’ communities, and beyond. Our Racial Equity Initiative focuses on three multi-year pillars, each containing actions and progress we expect to make or exceed by 2025.
Strengthening our communities: using data, technology, and partnerships to help improve the lives of Black and African American people in the United States, including our employees and their communities.
Engaging our ecosystem: using our balance sheet and relationships with suppliers and partners to foster societal change and create new opportunities.
Increasing representation and strengthening inclusion: building on our momentum by adding a $150 million investment to strengthen inclusion and double the number of Black, African American, Hispanic, and Latinx leaders in the United States by 2025.
In fiscal year 2023, we collaborated with partners and worked within neighborhoods and communities to launch and scale a number of projects and programs, including:
Working with 103 unique organizations in 165 cities and counties on our Justice Reform Initiative to empower communities and advance racial equity and fairness in the justice system.
Increasing access to affordable broadband, devices, and digital literacy training across 14 geographies, including 11 cities and three states in the Black Rural south.
Growing our Nonprofit Tech Acceleration for Black and African American Communities program, which uses data, technology, and partnerships to help more than 2,000 local organizations to modernize and streamline operations.
Expanding our Technology Education and Learning Support (“TEALS”) program to reach nearly 400 high schools in 21 communities to increase computer science opportunities for Black and African American students.
We exceeded our 2020 goal to double the percentage of our transaction volumes with Black- and African American-owned financial institutions by 2023. We are also increasing investment activity with Black- and African American-owned asset managers, which now represent 45 percent of our external manager group, enabling increased funds into local communities. We also met our goal of creating a $100 million program focused on mission-driven banks. We enriched our supplier pipeline, achieving our goal to spend $500 million with double the number of Black- and African American-owned suppliers. We also increased the number of identified partners in the Black Partner Growth Initiative by more than 250 percent, surpassing our initial goal.
We have made meaningful progress on representation and inclusion at Microsoft. As of June 2023, we are 93 percent of the way to our 2025 commitment to double the number of Black and African American people managers in the U.S. (below director level), and 107 percent of the way for Black and African American directors (people managers and individual contributors). We are 28 percent of the way for Hispanic and Latinx people managers (below director level) and 74 percent of the way for Hispanic and Latinx directors.
Investing in Digital Skills
After helping over 80 million jobseekers around the world access digital skilling resources, we introduced a new Skills for Jobs initiative to support a more skills-based labor market, with greater flexibility and accessible learning paths to develop the right skills needed for the most in-demand jobs. Our Skills for Jobs initiative brings together learning resources, certification opportunities, and job-seeker tools from LinkedIn, GitHub, and Microsoft Learn, and is built on data insights drawn from LinkedIn’s Economic Graph.
We also launched a national campaign to help skill and recruit 250,000 people into the cybersecurity workforce by 2025, representing half of the country’s workforce shortage. To that end, we are making curriculum available free of charge to all of the nation’s higher education institutions, providing training for new and existing faculty, and providing scholarships and supplemental resources to 25,000 students. We have expanded the cyber skills initiative to 27 additional countries that show elevated cyberthreat risks coupled with significant gaps in their cybersecurity workforces, partnering with nonprofits and other educational institutions to train the next generation of cybersecurity workers.
Generative AI is creating unparalleled opportunities to empower workers globally, but only if everyone has the skills to use it. To address this, in June 2023 we launched a new AI Skills Initiative to help everyone learn how to harness the power of AI. This includes a new LinkedIn learning pathway offering new coursework on learning the foundations of generative AI. We also launched a new global grant challenge to uncover new ways of training workers on generative AI and are providing greater access to digital learning events and resources for everyone to improve their AI fluency.
