Nuance Communications, Inc.
On March 4, 2022, we completed our acquisition of Nuance Communications, Inc. (“Nuance”) for a total purchase price of $18.8 billion, consisting primarily of cash. Nuance is a cloud and artificial intelligence (“AI”) software provider with healthcare and enterprise AI experience, and the acquisition will build on our industry-specific cloud offerings. The financial results of Nuance have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition. Nuance is reported as part of our Intelligent Cloud segment.
The allocation of the purchase price to goodwill was completed as of December 31, 2022. The major classes of assets and liabilities to which we have allocated the purchase price were as follows:
Goodwill was assigned to our Intelligent Cloud segment and was primarily attributed to increased synergies that are expected to be achieved from the integration of Nuance. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Includes $986 million of convertible senior notes issued by Nuance in 2015 and 2017, substantially all of which have been redeemed.
Following are the details of the purchase price allocated to the intangible assets acquired:
ZeniMax Media Inc.
On March 9, 2021, we completed our acquisition of ZeniMax Media Inc. (“ZeniMax”), the parent company of Bethesda Softworks LLC (“Bethesda”), for a total purchase price of $8.1 billion, consisting primarily of cash. The purchase price included $766 million of cash and cash equivalents acquired. Bethesda is one of the largest, privately held game developers and publishers in the world, and brings a broad portfolio of games, technology, and talent to Xbox. The financial results of ZeniMax have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition. ZeniMax is reported as part of our More Personal Computing segment.
The allocation of the purchase price to goodwill was completed as of December 31, 2021. The major classes of assets and liabilities to which we have allocated the purchase price were as follows:
Goodwill was assigned to our More Personal Computing segment. The goodwill was primarily attributed to increased synergies that are expected to be achieved from the integration of ZeniMax. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Following are details of the purchase price allocated to the intangible assets acquired:
Activision Blizzard, Inc.
On January 18, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Activision Blizzard, Inc. (“Activision Blizzard”) for $95.00 per share in an all-cash transaction valued at $68.7 billion, inclusive of Activision Blizzard’s net cash. Activision Blizzard is a leader in game development and an interactive entertainment content publisher. The acquisition will accelerate the growth in our gaming business across mobile, PC, console, and cloud gaming. The acquisition has been approved by Activision Blizzard’s shareholders. We continue to work toward closing the transaction subject to obtaining required regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. Microsoft and Activision Blizzard have jointly agreed to extend the merger agreement through October 18, 2023 to allow for additional time to resolve remaining regulatory concerns.
NOTE 9 — GOODWILL
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows:
The measurement periods for the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed end as soon as information on the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition dates becomes available, but do not exceed 12 months. Adjustments in purchase price allocations may require a change in the amounts allocated to goodwill during the periods in which the adjustments are determined.
Any change in the goodwill amounts resulting from foreign currency translations and purchase accounting adjustments are presented as “Other” in the table above. Also included in “Other” are business dispositions and transfers between segments due to reorganizations, as applicable.
Goodwill Impairment
We test goodwill for impairment annually on May 1 at the reporting unit level, primarily using a discounted cash flow methodology with a peer-based, risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital. We believe use of a discounted cash flow approach is the most reliable indicator of the fair values of the businesses.
No instances of impairment were identified in our May 1, 2023, May 1, 2022, or May 1, 2021 tests. As of June 30, 2023 and 2022, accumulated goodwill impairment was $11.3 billion.
