Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global enterprises, public-sector institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Our practice is to ship our products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog is not significant.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
We are subject to a wide range of laws, regulations, and legal requirements in the U.S. and globally, including those that may apply to our products and online services offerings, and those that impose requirements related to user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, advertising, and online content. How these laws and regulations apply to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. To comply with the accelerating global regulatory obligations, we established a regulatory governance framework and to create a repeatable system-focused approach to regulatory governance with an initial focus on four domains: Responsible AI, Privacy, Digital Safety, and Cybersecurity. The framework is designed to help us maintain customer trust and confidence in our products, remain in compliance with regulators around the globe, and effectively scale our capability to address the growing number of complex regulations. Through the framework, our legal and regulatory subject matter experts ingest regulations, develop standards and implementation guidance, and, when appropriate, work with our engineers to develop and implement products to monitor compliance. Our business teams, with legal support, manage the compliance programs and prepare external regulatory and commercial reporting, and our internal audit teams conduct reviews of our programs and processes. While we intended to create a unified approach to regulatory compliance, some of the programs and processes established pursuant to the framework are tailored to meet specific regulatory obligations, such as with the creation of independent compliance functions required by the European Union (“EU”) Digital Markets Act and the EU Digital Services Act, which oversee, monitor, and assess the company’s compliance with these acts.
For a description of the risks we face related to regulatory matters, refer to Risk Factors in our fiscal year 2024 Form 10-K.
