We have regional operations service centers that support our operations, including customer contract and order processing, billing, credit and collections, customer lifecycle operations, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The centers in Ireland and Romania support the African, European, and Middle East regions; the centers in India and Ireland support the Asia-Pacific region; and the centers in Arlington, Virginia, Atlanta, Georgia, Charlotte, North Carolina, Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Redmond, Washington, Reno, Nevada, and San Jose, Costa Rica support the Americas regions.
In addition to our operations centers, we also operate datacenters throughout each of these regions. We continue to identify and evaluate opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and increase our server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services. Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units (“GPUs”) and other components.
Our devices are primarily manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. For the majority of our products, we have the ability to use other manufacturers if a current vendor becomes unavailable or unable to meet our requirements. However, some of our products contain certain components for which there are very few qualified suppliers. Extended disruptions at these suppliers could impact our ability to manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Product and Service Development, and Intellectual Property
We develop most of our products and services internally through the following engineering groups.
Cloud and AI
– focuses on making IT professionals, developers, partners, independent software vendors, and their systems more productive and efficient through development of Azure AI platform and cloud infrastructure, server, database, CRM, ERP, software development tools and services, AI cognitive services, and other business process applications and services for enterprises.
Strategic Missions and Technologies
– focuses on incubating technical products and support solutions with transformative potential for the future of cloud computing and continued company growth, such as quantum computing and advanced AI for science.
Experiences and Devices
– focuses on delivering high value end-user experiences across our products, services, and devices, including Microsoft 365, Windows, Microsoft Teams, and the Surface line of devices.
Microsoft AI
– focuses on delivering online experiences targeted at consumers (including Bing, Copilot, Start/MSN, and other advertising-based services) and developing advanced AI models.
Microsoft Security
– focuses on delivering a comprehensive portfolio of services that protect our customers’ digital infrastructure through cloud platform and application security, data protection and governance, identity and network access, and device management.
Technology and Research
– focuses on fundamental research, product and business incubations, and forward-looking AI innovations that span infrastructure, services, and applications. This engineering group includes Microsoft Research, one of the world’s largest corporate research organizations, which focuses on fundamental research in AI, computer science, and a broad range of other disciplines.
LinkedIn
– focuses on our services that transform the way professionals grow their network and find jobs and the way businesses hire, market, sell, and learn.
Gaming
– focuses on developing hardware, content, and services across a large range of platforms to help grow our user base through game experiences and social interaction.
Internal development allows us to maintain competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer technical control over our products and services. It also gives us the freedom to decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. We strive to obtain information as early as possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software and hardware design. Before releasing new software platforms, and as we make significant modifications to existing platforms, we provide application vendors with a range of resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, we also create product documentation internally.
We protect our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply to our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. We are a leader among technology companies in pursuing patents and currently have a portfolio of over 63,000 U.S. and international patents issued and over 23,000 pending worldwide. While we employ much of our internally-developed intellectual property in our products and services, we also engage in outbound licensing of specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees’ products. From time to time, we enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups of patents. We may also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products and services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, supporting societal and/or environmental efforts, or attracting and enabling our external development community. Our engagement with open source software also causes us to license our intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations.
While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and services, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the development of our products.
Investing in the Future
Our success is based on our ability to create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new geographic and product markets, and to drive broad adoption of our products and services. We invest in a range of emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that we believe offer significant opportunities to deliver value to our customers and growth for the company. Based on our assessment of key technology trends, we maintain our long-term commitment to research and development across a wide spectrum of technologies, tools, and platforms spanning digital work and life experiences, cloud computing, AI, devices, and operating systems.
While our main product research and development facilities are located in Redmond, Washington, we also operate research and development facilities in other parts of the U.S. and around the world. This global approach helps us remain competitive in local markets and enables us to continue to attract top talent from across the world.
We plan to continue to make significant investments in a broad range of product research and development activities, and as appropriate we will coordinate our research and development across operating segments and leverage the results across the company. This includes continuing to support fundamental research, which provides us with a unique perspective on future trends and contributes to our innovation.
