REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Microsoft Corporation
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Microsoft Corporation and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of June 30, 2024 and 2023, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and stockholders’ equity, for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2024, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of June 30, 2024 and 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2024, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2024, based on criteria established in
Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013)
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated July 30, 2024, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Revenue Recognition – Refer to Note 1 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
The Company recognizes revenue upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services. The Company offers customers the ability to acquire multiple licenses of software products and services, including cloud-based services, in its customer agreements through its volume licensing programs.
Significant judgment is exercised by the Company in determining revenue recognition for certain customer agreements, and includes the following:
Determination of whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together, such as software licenses and related services that are sold with cloud-based services.
The pattern of delivery (i.e., timing of when revenue is recognized) for each distinct performance obligation.
Identification and treatment of contract terms that may impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized (e.g., variable consideration, optional purchases, and free services).
Determination of stand-alone selling prices for each distinct performance obligation and for products and services that are not sold separately.
Given these factors and due to the volume of transactions, the related audit effort in evaluating management’s judgments in determining revenue recognition for certain customer agreements was extensive and required a high degree of auditor judgment.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our principal audit procedures related to the Company’s revenue recognition for certain customer agreements included the following:
We tested the effectiveness of controls related to the identification of distinct performance obligations, the determination of the timing of revenue recognition, and the estimation of variable consideration.
We evaluated management’s significant accounting policies related to certain customer agreements for reasonableness.
We selected a sample of customer agreements and performed the following procedures:
Obtained and read contract source documents for each selection, including master agreements, and other documents that were part of the agreement.
Tested management’s identification and treatment of contract terms.
Assessed the terms in the customer agreement and evaluated the appropriateness of management’s application of their accounting policies, along with their use of estimates, in the determination of revenue recognition conclusions.
We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s estimate of stand-alone selling prices for products and services that are not sold separately.
We tested the mathematical accuracy of management’s calculations of revenue and the associated timing of revenue recognized in the financial statements.
Income Taxes – Uncertain Tax Positions – Refer to Note 12 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
The Company’s long-term income taxes liability includes uncertain tax positions related to transfer pricing issues that remain unresolved with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The Company remains under IRS audit, or subject to IRS audit, for tax years subsequent to 2003. In the current fiscal year, the Company received Notices of Proposed Adjustments (“NOPAs”) for the tax years 2004 to 2013, primarily related to intercompany transfer pricing. While the Company has settled a portion of the IRS audits, resolution of the remaining matters could have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
Conclusions on recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions involve significant estimates and management judgment and include complex considerations of the Internal Revenue Code, related regulations, tax case laws, and prior-year audit settlements. Given the complexity and the subjective nature of certain transfer pricing issues that remain unresolved with the IRS, evaluating management’s estimates relating to their determination of uncertain tax positions required extensive audit effort and a high degree of auditor judgment, including involvement of our tax specialists.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our principal audit procedures to evaluate management’s estimates of uncertain tax positions related to unresolved transfer pricing issues included the following:
We evaluated the appropriateness and consistency of management’s methods and assumptions used in the identification, recognition, measurement, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions, which included testing the effectiveness of the related internal controls.
We read and evaluated management’s documentation, including relevant accounting policies and information obtained by management from outside tax specialists, that detailed the basis of the uncertain tax positions.
We tested the reasonableness of management’s judgments regarding the future resolution of the uncertain tax positions, including an evaluation of the technical merits of the uncertain tax positions.
For those uncertain tax positions that had not been effectively settled, we evaluated whether management had appropriately considered new information, including the NOPAs received in the current fiscal year, that could significantly change the recognition, measurement, or disclosure of the uncertain tax positions.
We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s estimates by considering how tax law, including statutes, regulations, and case law, impacted management’s judgments.
Business Combinations – Estimate for Valuation of Acquired Intangible Assets – Refer to Note 8 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
On October 13, 2023, the Company completed the acquisition of Activision Blizzard, Inc. The Company accounted for the Activision Blizzard, Inc., acquisition as a business combination and, accordingly, allocated the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition. Identifiable intangible assets acquired included marketing-related intangible assets, technology-based intangible assets, and customer-related intangible assets. The excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed was recorded as goodwill.
We identified the fair value determination of certain marketing-related and technology-based intangible assets for the business combination as a critical audit matter due to the significant judgment required in determining their estimated fair values. Management’s estimates of fair value included assumptions for revenue and expense forecasts and the selection of appropriate discount rates. There was a high degree of auditor judgment and subjectivity in applying audit procedures and evaluating the significant assumptions relating to the estimates, including involvement of our fair value specialists.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to management’s estimates of the fair value of certain marketing-related and technology-based intangible assets acquired included the following, among others:
We tested the operating effectiveness of internal controls over the business combination, including internal controls over the revenue and expense forecasts and the selection of appropriate discount rates.
We assessed the knowledge, skills, abilities, and objectivity of management’s valuation specialist and evaluated the work performed.
When assessing the reasonableness of assumptions related to forecasted revenue and expenses, we evaluated whether the assumptions used were reasonable considering historical financial information of Activision Blizzard, Inc., and the Company’s forecasted financial information.
With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the reasonableness of the discount rates by:
Testing the source information underlying the discount rates and testing the mathematical accuracy of the calculations.
Developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rates selected by management.
/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Seattle, Washington
July 30, 2024
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1983.
Controls & Procedures
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
Not applicable.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of our consolidated financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of company assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of company assets that could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our consolidated financial statements would be prevented or detected.
Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013)
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Our assessment of, and conclusion on, the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of Activision Blizzard, Inc., acquired on October 13, 2023, which is included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and represented less than 1% of our total assets as of June 30, 2024 after excluding goodwill and intangible assets acquired, and 2% of our total revenues for the year ended June 30, 2024. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of June 30, 2024. There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2024 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2024; their report follows.
