Overview
Microsoft aims to recruit, develop, and retain world-changing talent from a diversity of backgrounds. To foster their and our success, we seek to create an environment where people can thrive and do their best work. We strive to maximize the potential of our human capital resources by creating a respectful, rewarding, and inclusive work environment that enables our global employees to create products and services that further our mission.
As of June 30, 2023, we employed approximately 221,000 people on a full-time basis, 120,000 in the U.S. and 101,000 internationally. Of the total employed people, 89,000 were in operations, including manufacturing, distribution, product support, and consulting services; 72,000 were in product research and development; 45,000 were in sales and marketing; and 15,000 were in general and administration. Certain employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements.
Our Culture
Microsoft’s culture is grounded in growth mindset. This means everyone is on a continuous journey to learn and grow, operating as one company instead of multiple siloed businesses.
Our employee listening systems enable us to gather feedback directly from our workforce to inform our programs and employee needs globally. Employees participate in our Employee Signals surveys, which cover a variety of topics such as thriving, inclusion, team culture, wellbeing, and learning and development. We also collect Daily Signals employee survey responses, giving us real-time insights into ways we can support our employees. In addition to Employee Signals and Daily Signals surveys, we gain insights through onboarding, exit surveys, internal Viva Engage channels, employee Q&A sessions, and our internal AskHR Service support.
Diversity and inclusion are core to our business model, and we hold ourselves accountable for driving global systemic change in our workforce and creating an inclusive work environment. We support multiple highly active Employee Resource Groups for women, families, racial and ethnic minorities, military, people with disabilities, and employees who identify as LGBTQIA+, where employees can go for support, networking, and community-building. As described in our 2022 Proxy Statement, annual performance and compensation reviews of our senior leadership team include an evaluation of their contributions to employee culture and diversity. To ensure accountability over time, we publicly disclose our progress on a multitude of workforce metrics including:
Detailed breakdowns of gender, racial, and ethnic minority representation in our employee population, with data by job types, levels, and segments of our business.
Our EEO-1 report (equal employment opportunity).
Disability representation.
Pay equity (see details below).
Total Rewards and Pay Equity
We develop dynamic, sustainable, market-driven, and strategic programs with the goal of providing a highly differentiated portfolio to attract, reward, and retain top talent and enable our employees to thrive. These programs reinforce our culture and values such as collaboration and growth mindset. Managers evaluate and recommend rewards based on, for example, how well we leverage the work of others and contribute to the success of our colleagues. We monitor pay equity and career progress across multiple dimensions. Our total compensation opportunity is highly differentiated and is market competitive.
In order to manage our costs in a dynamic, competitive environment, in fiscal year 2023 we announced that base salaries of salaried employees would remain at fiscal year 2022 levels. Pay increases continue to be available for rewards-eligible hourly and equivalent employees. We will continue our practice of investing in stock for all rewards-eligible employees, salaried and hourly, and investing in bonuses for all eligible employees.
Since 2016, we have reported on pay equity as part of our annual Diversity and Inclusion report. In 2022, we reported that all racial and ethnic minority employees in the U.S. combined earn $1.008 for every $1.000 earned by their white counterparts, that women in the U.S. earn $1.007 for every $1.000 earned by their counterparts who are men, and that women outside the U.S. earn $1.002 for every $1.000 earned by their counterparts outside the U.S. who are men. In this year’s report, we again expanded our pay equity data beyond the U.S. to report on 61 additional countries (up from 12 last year), representing 99.8% of our global Microsoft workforce.
In addition, we began reporting on unadjusted median pay in our annual report, comparing total pay amounts for all employees regardless of factors such as job title, level, or tenure. For employees who are eligible for rewards, the analysis showed that total pay for women is 89.6% of total pay for men in the U.S. and 86.2% outside of the U.S., and total pay for racial and ethnic minorities in the U.S. is 89.9% of total pay for white employees. As we continue to increase representation for women and racial and ethnic minorities at more senior levels, and continue to ensure pay equity for all, the gap between the medians will reduce.
Our intended result is a global performance and development approach that fosters our culture, and competitive compensation that ensures equitable pay by role while supporting pay for performance.
Wellbeing and Hybrid Work
Microsoft is committed to supporting our employees’ wellbeing while they are at work and in their personal lives. We have invested significantly in wellbeing, and offer a differentiated benefits package which includes many physical, emotional, and financial wellness programs including counseling through the Microsoft CARES Employee Assistance Program, mental wellbeing support, flexible fitness benefits, disability accommodations, savings and investment tools, adoption assistance, and back-up care for children and elders. Finally, our Occupational Health and Safety program helps ensure employees can stay safe while they are working.
We introduced Hybrid Workplace Flexibility Guidance to better support leaders, managers, and employees in hybrid work scenarios. Our ongoing survey data shows that 93% of employees value the flexibility related to work location, work site, and work hours, and 78% are satisfied with the quality of connection with co-workers. There is no one-size-fits-all approach to flexible work at Microsoft. As a company, we will continue to leverage data and research to inform decision making, balancing the needs of business, team, and individual.
Learning and Development
We offer a range of learning opportunities, including personalized opportunities on our internal and external learning portals, in-classroom learning, required learning on compliance and company culture, on-the-job advancement opportunities, and manager coaching. We also provide customized manager learning, new employee orientation, and tools for operating in a flexible hybrid work environment.
All Microsoft employees globally access our single Viva Learning tool for both required and personal choice learning. This includes courses focused on our core principles and compliance matters, such as Business Conduct, Privacy, Security Foundations, and Harassment Prevention. We also deliver skills training for employees based on their profession and role discipline.
We have over 27,000 people managers, all of whom must complete between 20-33 hours of compulsory training on leadership and management and are assigned additional targeted training on an ongoing basis related to people management, compliance, and culture.
OPERATING SEGMENTS
We operate our business and report our financial performance using three segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. Our segments provide management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide a framework for timely and rational allocation of resources within businesses.
Additional information on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note 19 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements.
Our reportable segments are described below.
Productivity and Business Processes
Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises:
Office Commercial (Office 365 subscriptions, the Office 365 portion of Microsoft 365 Commercial subscriptions, and Office licensed on-premises), comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office 365 Security and Compliance, Microsoft Viva, and Microsoft 365 Copilot.
Office Consumer, including Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions, Office licensed on-premises, and other Office services.
LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions.
Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM (including Customer Insights), Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications.
Office Commercial
Office Commercial is designed to increase personal, team, and organizational productivity through a range of products and services. Growth depends on our ability to reach new users in new markets such as frontline workers, small and medium businesses, and growth markets, as well as add value to our core product and service offerings to span productivity categories such as communication, collaboration, analytics, security, and compliance. Office Commercial revenue is mainly affected by a combination of continued installed base growth and average revenue per user expansion, as well as the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Office 365.
Office Consumer
Office Consumer is designed to increase personal productivity and creativity through a range of products and services. Growth depends on our ability to reach new users, add value to our core product set, and continue to expand our product and service offerings into new markets. Office Consumer revenue is mainly affected by the percentage of customers that buy Office with their new devices and the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions. Office Consumer Services revenue is mainly affected by the demand for communication and storage through Skype, Outlook.com, and OneDrive, which is largely driven by subscriptions, advertising, and the sale of minutes.
LinkedIn
LinkedIn connects the world’s professionals to make them more productive and successful and transforms the way companies hire, market, sell, and learn. Our vision is to create economic opportunity for every member of the global workforce through the ongoing development of the world’s first Economic Graph, a digital representation of the global economy. In addition to LinkedIn’s free services, LinkedIn offers monetized solutions: Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions. Talent Solutions provide insights for workforce planning and tools to hire, nurture, and develop talent. Talent Solutions also includes Learning Solutions, which help businesses close critical skills gaps in times where companies are having to do more with existing talent. Marketing Solutions help companies reach, engage, and convert their audiences at scale. Premium Subscriptions enable professionals to manage their professional identity, grow their network, find jobs, and connect with talent through additional services like premium search. Sales Solutions help companies strengthen customer relationships, empower teams with digital selling tools, and acquire new opportunities. LinkedIn has over 950 million members and has offices around the globe. Growth will depend on our ability to increase the number of LinkedIn members and our ability to continue offering services that provide value for our members and increase their engagement. LinkedIn revenue is mainly affected by demand from enterprises and professional organizations for subscriptions to Talent Solutions, Sales Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions offerings, as well as member engagement and the quality of the sponsored content delivered to those members to drive Marketing Solutions.
Dynamics
Dynamics provides cloud-based and on-premises business solutions for financial management, enterprise resource planning (“ERP”), customer relationship management (“CRM”), supply chain management, and other application development platforms for small and medium businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises. Dynamics revenue is driven by the number of users licensed and applications consumed, expansion of average revenue per user, and the continued shift to Dynamics 365, a unified set of cloud-based intelligent business applications, including Power Apps and Power Automate.
Competition
Competitors to Office include software and global application vendors, such as Apple, Cisco Systems, Meta, Google, Okta, Proofpoint, Slack, Symantec, Zoom, and numerous web-based and mobile application competitors as well as local application developers. Apple distributes versions of its pre-installed application software, such as email and calendar products, through its PCs, tablets, and phones. Cisco Systems is using its position in enterprise communications equipment to grow its unified communications business. Meta offers communication tools to enable productivity and engagement within organizations. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite. Slack provides teamwork and collaboration software. Zoom offers videoconferencing and cloud phone solutions. Okta, Proofpoint, and Symantec provide security solutions across email security, information protection, identity, and governance. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications have also positioned themselves as alternatives to our products and services. We compete by providing powerful, flexible, secure, integrated industry-specific, and easy-to-use productivity and collaboration tools and services that create comprehensive solutions and work well with technologies our customers already have both on-premises or in the cloud.
LinkedIn faces competition from online professional networks, recruiting companies, talent management companies, and larger companies that are focusing on talent management and human resource services; job boards; traditional recruiting firms; and companies that provide learning and development products and services. Marketing Solutions competes with online and offline outlets that generate revenue from advertisers and marketers, and Sales Solutions competes with online and offline outlets for companies with lead generation and customer intelligence and insights.
Dynamics competes with cloud-based and on-premises business solution providers such as Oracle, Salesforce, and SAP.
Intelligent Cloud
Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that can power modern business and developers. This segment primarily comprises:
Server products and cloud services, including Azure and other cloud services; SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”); and Nuance and GitHub.
Enterprise Services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions (formerly Microsoft Consulting Services), and Nuance professional services.
Server Products and Cloud Services
Azure is a comprehensive set of cloud services that offer developers, IT professionals, and enterprises freedom to build, deploy, and manage applications on any platform or device. Customers can use Azure through our global network of datacenters for computing, networking, storage, mobile and web application services, AI, IoT, cognitive services, and machine learning. Azure enables customers to devote more resources to development and use of applications that benefit their organizations, rather than managing on-premises hardware and software. Azure revenue is mainly affected by infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based services, and per user-based services such as Enterprise Mobility + Security.
Azure AI offerings provide a competitive advantage as companies seek ways to optimize and scale their business with machine learning. Azure’s purpose-built, AI-optimized infrastructure allows advanced models, including GPT-4 services designed for developers and data scientists, to do more with less. Customers can integrate large language models and develop the next generation of AI apps and services.
Our server products are designed to make IT professionals, developers, and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software is integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed to support software applications built on the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security, and identity software. We also license standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server products revenue is mainly affected by purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold to original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”), and retail packaged products. CALs provide access rights to certain server products, including SQL Server and Windows Server, and revenue is reported along with the associated server product.
Nuance and GitHub include both cloud and on-premises offerings. Nuance provides healthcare and enterprise AI solutions. GitHub provides a collaboration platform and code hosting service for developers.
Enterprise Services
Enterprise Services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, and Nuance Professional Services, assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server solutions, Microsoft desktop solutions, and Nuance conversational AI and ambient intelligent solutions, along with providing training and certification to developers and IT professionals on various Microsoft products.
Competition
Azure faces diverse competition from companies such as Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle, VMware, and open source offerings. Azure’s competitive advantage includes enabling a hybrid cloud, allowing deployment of existing datacenters with our public cloud into a single, cohesive infrastructure, and the ability to run at a scale that meets the needs of businesses of all sizes and complexities. Our AI offerings compete with AI products from hyperscalers such as Amazon Bedrock, Amazon CodeWhisperer, and Google AI, as well as products from other emerging competitors, many of which are also current or potential partners, including Meta’s LLaMA2 and other open source solutions. Our Enterprise Mobility + Security offerings also compete with products from a range of competitors including identity vendors, security solution vendors, and numerous other security point solution vendors. We believe our cloud’s global scale, coupled with our broad portfolio of identity and security solutions, allows us to effectively solve complex cybersecurity challenges for our customers and differentiates us from the competition.
Our server products face competition from a wide variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies with a range of market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions of the Unix operating system preinstalled on server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system, and many contribute to Linux operating system development. The competitive position of Linux has also benefited from the large number of compatible applications now produced by many commercial and non-commercial software developers. A number of companies, such as Red Hat, supply versions of Linux.
We compete to provide enterprise-wide computing solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and e-business servers. IBM and Oracle lead a group of companies focused on the Java Platform Enterprise Edition that competes with our enterprise-wide computing solutions. Commercial competitors for our server applications for PC-based distributed client-server environments include CA Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our web application platform software competes with open source software such as Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. In middleware, we compete against Java vendors.
Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP, Snowflake, and other companies. Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such as BMC, CA Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMware. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, and other companies, and also against open source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored by CA Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby on Rails.
We believe our server products provide customers with advantages in performance, total costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security, and manageability.
Our Enterprise Services business competes with a wide range of companies that provide strategy and business planning, application development, and infrastructure services, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused on specific technologies.
More Personal Computing
Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services that put customers at the center of the experience with our technology. This segment primarily comprises:
Windows, including Windows OEM licensing (“Windows OEM”) and other non-volume licensing of the Windows operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing of the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings; patent licensing; and Windows IoT.
Devices, including Surface, HoloLens, and PC accessories.
Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising first- and third-party content (including games and in-game content), Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions, Xbox Cloud Gaming, advertising, third-party disc royalties, and other cloud services.
Search and news advertising, comprising Bing (including Bing Chat), Microsoft News, Microsoft Edge, and third-party affiliates.
Windows
The Windows operating system is designed to deliver a more personal computing experience for users by enabling consistency of experience, applications, and information across their devices. Windows OEM revenue is impacted significantly by the number of Windows operating system licenses purchased by OEMs, which they pre-install on the devices they sell. In addition to computing device market volume, Windows OEM revenue is impacted by:
The mix of computing devices based on form factor and screen size.
Differences in device market demand between developed markets and growth markets.
Attachment of Windows to devices shipped.
Customer mix between consumer, small and medium businesses, and large enterprises.
Changes in inventory levels in the OEM channel.
Pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when the mix of devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders to large multinational OEMs, and different pricing of Windows versions licensed.
Constraints in the supply chain of device components.
Piracy.
Windows Commercial revenue, which includes volume licensing of the Windows operating system and Windows cloud services such as Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, is affected mainly by the demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and Software Assurance (“SA”), as well as advanced security offerings. Windows Commercial revenue often reflects the number of information workers in a licensed enterprise and is relatively independent of the number of PCs sold in a given year.
Patent licensing includes our programs to license patents we own for use across a broad array of technology areas, including mobile devices and cloud offerings.
Windows IoT extends the power of Windows and the cloud to intelligent systems by delivering specialized operating systems, tools, and services for use in embedded devices.
Devices
We design and sell devices, including Surface, HoloLens, and PC accessories. Our devices are designed to enable people and organizations to connect to the people and content that matter most using Windows and integrated Microsoft products and services. Surface is designed to help organizations, students, and consumers be more productive. Growth in Devices is dependent on total PC shipments, the ability to attract new customers, our product roadmap, and expanding into new categories.
Gaming
Our gaming platform is designed to provide a variety of entertainment through a unique combination of content, community, and cloud services. Our exclusive game content is created through Xbox Game Studios, a collection of first-party studios creating iconic and differentiated gaming experiences. We continue to invest in new gaming studios and content to expand our intellectual property roadmap and leverage new content creators. These unique gaming experiences are the cornerstone of Xbox Game Pass, a subscription service and gaming community with access to a curated library of over 400 first- and third-party console and PC titles.
The gamer remains at the heart of the Xbox ecosystem. We are identifying new opportunities to attract gamers across a variety of different end points through our first- and third-party content and business diversification across subscriptions, ads, and digital stores. We’ve seen new devices from third-party manufacturers along with key PC and mobile end points that help us empower gamers to play in a way that is most convenient to them. We are focused on growing the platform and expanding to new ecosystems to engage as many gamers as possible.
Xbox enables people to connect and share online gaming experiences that are accessible on Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and other devices. Xbox is designed to benefit users by providing access to a network of certified applications and services and to benefit our developer and partner ecosystems by providing access to a large customer base. Xbox revenue is mainly affected by subscriptions and sales of first- and third-party content, as well as advertising. Growth of our Gaming business is determined by the overall active user base through Xbox enabled content, availability of games, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the devices used to access our content and services, and the ability to create new experiences through first-party content creators.
Search and News Advertising
Our Search and news advertising business is designed to deliver relevant search, native, and display advertising to a global audience. Our Microsoft Edge browser and Bing Chat capabilities are key tools to enable user acquisition and engagement, while our technology platform enables accelerated delivery of digital advertising solutions. In addition to first-party tools, we have several partnerships with companies, such as Yahoo, through which we provide and monetize search offerings. Growth depends on our ability to attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content on advertising offerings.
Competition
Windows faces competition from various software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly from Apple and Google. We believe Windows competes effectively by giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, and compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity.
Devices face competition from various computer, tablet, and hardware manufacturers who offer a unique combination of high-quality industrial design and innovative technologies across various price points. These manufacturers, many of which are also current or potential partners and customers, include Apple and our Windows OEMs.
Xbox and our cloud gaming services face competition from various online gaming ecosystems and game streaming services, including those operated by Amazon, Apple, Meta, and Tencent. We also compete with other providers of entertainment services such as video streaming platforms. Our gaming platform competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both of which have a large, established base of customers. We believe our gaming platform is effectively positioned against, and uniquely differentiated from, competitive products and services based on significant innovation in hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own first-party game franchises as well as other digital content offerings.
Our Search and news advertising business competes with Google and a wide array of websites, social platforms like Meta, and portals that provide content and online offerings to end users.
