We offer options for organizations that want to purchase our cloud services, on-premises software, and SA. We license software to organizations under volume licensing agreements to allow the customer to acquire multiple licenses of products and services instead of having to acquire separate licenses through retail channels. We use different programs designed to provide flexibility for organizations of various sizes. While these programs may differ in various parts of the world, generally they include those discussed below.
SA conveys rights to new software and upgrades for perpetual licenses released over the contract period. It also provides support, tools, training, and other licensing benefits to help customers deploy and use software efficiently. SA is included with certain volume licensing agreements and is an optional purchase with others.
Volume Licensing Programs
Enterprise Agreement
Enterprise Agreements offer large organizations a manageable volume licensing program that gives them the flexibility to buy cloud services and software licenses under one agreement. Enterprise Agreements are designed for medium or large organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software organization-wide over a three-year period. Organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses. SA is included.
Microsoft Customer Agreement
A Microsoft Customer Agreement is a simplified purchase agreement presented, accepted, and stored through a digital experience. A Microsoft Customer Agreement is a non-expiring agreement that is designed to support all customers over time, whether purchasing through a partner or directly from Microsoft.
Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement
A Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement is designed for small and medium organizations that want to subscribe to, activate, provision, and maintain cloud services seamlessly and directly via the web. The agreement allows customers to acquire monthly or annual subscriptions for cloud-based services.
Microsoft Products and Services Agreement
Microsoft Products and Services Agreements are designed for medium and large organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software as needed, with no organization-wide commitment, under a single, non-expiring agreement. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses. SA is optional for customers that purchase perpetual licenses.
Open Value
Open Value agreements are a simple, cost-effective way to acquire the latest Microsoft technology. These agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software over a three-year period. Under Open Value agreements, organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses and SA is included.
Select Plus
A Select Plus agreement is designed for government and academic organizations to acquire on-premises licenses at any affiliate or department level, while realizing advantages as one organization. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses and SA is optional.
Partner Programs
The Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider Program offers customers an easy way to license the cloud services they need in combination with the value-added services offered by their systems integrator, managed services provider, or cloud reseller partner. Partners in this program can easily package their own products and services to directly provision, manage, and support their customer subscriptions.
The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement allows hosting service providers and independent software vendors who want to license eligible Microsoft software products to provide software services and hosted applications to their end customers. Partners license software over a three-year period and are billed monthly based on consumption.
The Independent Software Vendor Royalty Program enables partners to integrate Microsoft products into other applications and then license the unified business solution to their end users.
CUSTOMERS
Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global enterprises, public-sector institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Our practice is to ship our products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog is not significant.
